
This folder contains raw motion capture data in the Character Studio Marker format (csm).  

These files can be imported in to Character Studio 2.0 using the Load MoCap button in the Motion Capture Rollout of Biped.

See also cstudio\Docs for more information on the CSM and MNM file syntax and Biped's use of it.

------------------
About Vicon
------------------
All this CSM data was captured and generated by the Vicon motion capture system.
 Vicon can be configured to generate CSM data automatically via its Pipeline
function.  So all the user needs to do is click "Start".

The all new VICON 8 is a completely new platform based on the latest 32 bit NT
workstation technology for fast and reliable motion capture.  More cameras and
dozens of new features make it designed specifically for animation professionals
make it ideal for injecting real life motion into characters used in visual
effects, computer games, film, and television.

Highlights of the VICON 8 capabilities:

24 CAMERAS.  Huge capture volumes and greatly improved marker definition reduce
post processing and further reduce the production pipeline. DYNACAL true dynamic
calibration allows unusual camera arrangements and the ability to change them
and re-calibrate rapidly so you can catch the action where it happens.

LONG DURATION CAPTURE.  Previous optical motion capture systems were limited to
several minutes of motion capture.  VICON 8 now allows continuous capture to
hard disk with as many markers and/or characters as you wish.

BUILT FOR PRODUCTION.  To ensure no hassle capture it even understands your
studio needs.  It fully supports SMPTE, has a unique single cabling system, it
can be genlocked and comes in solid flight cases as standard.  So it can take
everything your production throws at and still come back for more.


For further information about Vicon or more CSMs to play with contact:

Brian Nilles
Vicon Motion Systems
Tustin, California, USA
Phone:  (714) 259-1232
Fax:  (714) 259-1509
www.vicon.com
