
The motions is this directory were performed and choreographed by KIM WEILD 
and recorded at Futurelight/Santa Monica Studios, CA. 

-----------------------
About FutureLight
-----------------------
Housed in Santa Monica, CA, FutureLight Research and Development offers the latest advancements in Motion Capture technology.  This real-time optical system has become a new and effective way to animate characters for film, TV and interactive CD Rom projects. The real-time preview, which shows the virtual character responding to the motion actor's movements, instantly allows directors more interaction with their talent and control over the character's motions.  One advantage of the system is its ability to record and play back not just one, but the simultaneous movements of two actors without delay. Another advantage is the elimination of the time consuming tracking process common to other optical motion capture systems.  For more information see:  www.smstudios.com/fl or send an e-mail to: mcap@visionart.com.  

Below are descriptions of how the names of the files are encoded,
as well as a simple description, when necessary, of what is in each directory.

Note: The walks and runs were recorded on a treadmill and then
the forward motion was added from the treadmill speed. Slight
fluctuations in forward speed may be observed as a "jiggle" in the
feet...but these may be easily removed by Biped 2.0 with horizontal
key reduction and footstep extraction. 

Futhermore, a biped calibration file "runwalk.cal" improves the overall
appearance of the treadmill data by adjusting the posture of the head,
knees, feet, and spine so that they are better centered.

This data also looks better if the "auto" function is  used for knee
and elbow orientations. These settings may be loaded from an included mocap 
parameter file, "runwalk.moc", from the mocap import dialogue box.
It includes a reference to use the "runwalk.cal" file mentioned
in the previous paragraph.  

(A known bug in the loading of mocap files with the use of 
calbration files is that the entire file is always loaded.
So you may wish to view parts of files without the calibration
for talent definition pose adjustment.)

If you wish to work with a segment of a .bvh file with
use of a calibration file, a workaround is to:

1) Read in entire file with use of calibration file
2) Output segment as .bip with one keyframe/frame
3) Then Load .bip through mocap import for 
   key reduction/footstep extraction, etc.


- CHARACTER_SITS
sw means sit to walk, and ws means walk to sit.

- SITS
All files named sit*.bvh are walking to sitting.
Sometimes the approach to the chair is from the back, front, or sides.
Sometimes the legs in the sitting position are crossed.

All files named stand*.bvh are sitting to walking.
Sometimes the character walks to the back, front, or sides.
Sometime the legs in the sitting position are crossed.

- WALKS
Walks are parameterized according to 5 independent variables,
each of which has two possible values:
Speed (slow, fast)
Stride Length (short, long)
Bounce (low, high)
Arm Swing (low, high)
Pelvic Swing (low, high)

The file names use 5 letters to indicate the value of each
of these 5 variables, in the order given above.  For example:
walk22_fshlh.bvh means a walk with:
f -> fast speed
s -> short stride length
h -> high bounce
l -> low arm swing
h -> high pelvic swing

- RUNS

Runs are parameterized according to 4 independent variables,
each of which has two possible values:
Speed (jog, run)
Stride Length (short, long)
Bounce (low, high)
Arm Swing (low, high)

The file names use 4 letters to indicate the value of each
of these 4 variables, in the order given above.  For example:
run2_jslh.bvh means a run with:
j -> jog speed
s -> short stride length
l -> low bounce
h -> high arm swing


- FALLS
 The data becomes compromised at the point of hitting
the ground for most of these, so some editing is needed.

